####**Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?** 

As a child, I enjoyed a friend’s Dell Puzzles subscription because she only liked word games; once she had completed all the crosswords, she passed the dog-eared magazines on to me so that I could do the logic problems. Throughout my school years, my favorite birthday gifts were books by Martin Gardner that held collections of his “Mathematical Games” columns from Scientific American. And, at this very moment, the New York Times special puzzle section from December 2016 sits on my desk; whenever I have even a few free minutes, I work on another of the many puzzles it contains. Basically, I have always loved math, puzzles, problem solving, and, most especially, logic problems. I view programming as a logic problem—by knowing how to use the commands in a given language, you can get a computer to do the routine part of solving your puzzle. 
In my professional life, I teach young people how to use math to solve problems. My classes emphasize non-traditional questions that require students to think about everything they have learned from different areas of math and then to apply their knowledge in creative ways. I love the excitement of watching students discover how to solve a difficult problem, but I rarely get the pleasure of tackling something really new and challenging myself. In other words, for the past thirty years I have taught problem solving, now I would like to do problem solving.  

As an undergraduate, I learned how to program in Pascal, but that experience was so long ago that I remember little of it. Since then, my programming has been in two distinct realms. First, I use Visual Studio to write computer-generated math problems for students to solve so that they can get immediate feedback on their answers. Unfortunately, I do not really know this language – I simply have learned how to take chunks of code written by someone else and modify them to make my own problems. Second, in my math classes, we occasionally encounter problems that beg for a computer solution. For example, in sixth grade, we change numbers from one base to another using repeated division and keeping track of our remainders. Later in the year, we use Newton’s method to approximate square roots. Both of these exercises provide students with an interesting context in which they get needed computational practice as they solve the problems with pencil and paper. However, I have also turned these problems into optional coding assignments for those of my students who wish to answer them that way. And, since I will not assign a problem I cannot solve myself, I have taught myself to write some simple Excel programs using Google and online tutorials. The carefully annotated programs written in Java, or Python, or C++ that my students, who have learned to program independently, turn in, are always far more elegant, but my Excel programs accomplish the task.   
 
**If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?** 

If I could choose the perfect new direction for my career, it would be to work in data analysis, designing better ways for people to understand and use quantitative data. I am particularly interested in anything that can help us make sense of information so we can make better decisions, whether about health care, the environment, or economic policy.  

At the same time, I don’t really know all the places a background in development would allow me to go at this stage in my life. I recognize that as a middle-aged woman, I am not the typical employee at most technology firms. Still, I am very good at problem-solving, so I hope that I can find a place where my age will be an asset—where my perspective as someone who did not grow up with computers could be valuable. My own frustrations dealing with technology, as well as my experiences helping aging parents deal with important issues online, including medical records and government websites, could allow me to contribute to a company that wants to be more effective for wider variety of people.  


**After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?** 

About 15 years ago, I left my teaching position at Seattle University to work with middle school students.  At SU and at the other colleges at which I had taught, almost every quarter a tearful student, invariably female, would arrive at office hours after the first exam, devastated that she “could not do math.”  After many hours of extra help and reassurance, these students would successfully tackle a tricky related-rates problem or an integral requiring integration-by-parts, and realize that they actually could do math after all.  But the fact that so many young women had internalized a belief in their own inadequacy disturbed me.  When I heard from colleagues that they had similar experiences with their female math students, I decided to try working with younger girls, hoping to build their confidence in themselves as mathematicians early, making sure that they knew that they were just as capable as their male peers.  Clearly, Ada’s belief in empowering women is one I hold dear.  
 
On a broader scale, as an individual at Ada, my primary contribution would be to share your vision of not only an inclusive community, but of a whole world in which differences are valued and people of all backgrounds, interests, and talents are respected and appreciated. This is part of my personal belief in the worth of every human being and the importance of acknowledging the individual.  For the past eleven years I have taught at Lakeside, a school at which diversity and inclusion are core values, explicitly stated in the school’s mission.  Thus, regular conferences and speakers have helped to keep me informed and broaden my perspective. I am aware of my own privilege as an educated white woman, familiar with the deeply ingrained cultural and institutional biases against many other groups, and comfortable discussing the challenges of removing the barriers that keep so many from realizing their goals.  In addition, I co-lead a LGBTQ alliance group, work that has helped me become more sensitive to the issues that surround feeling different or marginalized at a very young age.  Moreover, during my years of service on the admissions committee at Lakeside, I spent a lot of time actively working to build a more diverse student body – considering everything from neighborhood, to race and ethnicity, to religion, to school of origin, to family structure, to socioeconomic status.  At the same time, trying to understand how we might work toward a more just society is something I pursue on my own; for example, I am currently attending a series of lectures at the University of Washington entitled Equity and Difference: Privilege. Perhaps most important of all, I hope that in my daily actions, the way I vote, treat my students, and interact with others, I demonstrate my belief in the intrinsic worth of every human being and my conviction that whenever any discussion—be it in a classroom, on the sidewalk, or in Congress—involves people with different perspectives and experiences, the conversation is richer.   
 
 
**Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**
 
I make mistakes all the time; no single one of them stands out from the many.  Recently, for example, I decided that I needed a better hook to draw students into the study of probability, so I introduced some dice games before providing any of the basic definitions.  My idea was that the questions we would raise in our play on the first day would inspire and deepen our inquiry throughout the rest of the unit.  Unfortunately, without any background, the students’ investigations of how changing the rules of the game affected the corresponding likelihood of winning were disorganized and led nowhere. The kids didn’t see enough patterns to ask good questions so I ended up going back to a more traditional introduction and playing the dice games later.  

While I would never introduce my probability unit this way again, I do not regret trying a new approach.  Without actually trying something new, I cannot always predict how it will work, so the only way to improve is by testing things.  I am constantly revising and refining my lesson plans, assignments, and assessments, and while these changes are often improvements, now and then one turns out to be a complete failure.  It’s still worth it in the end.  

The other mistakes I make in my professional life are those I make when I model problem solving for my students.  Sometimes these are legitimate errors on my part—I drop a negative sign, forget to include a case when counting, or fail to subtract the area of some part of the shaded figure.  I don’t worry at all about this kind of mistake because I know that if I can normalize making errors, I give my students permission to make mistakes without apology too.  The others errors I make are a little more contrived, but they are also an important part of my teaching.  When I present my students with an unfamiliar and challenging problem, I need them to know that making mistakes is part of finding a solution.  Thus, I will solicit suggestions for reasonable approaches that I know ultimately will not work.  And, after following them for a while, once we realize that we are stuck, I always make sure the students identify what we learned from the failed attempt – where it was helpful, and why it didn’t work in the end.  Then we use what we learned to try something different.
